so we have hid miraculously like eight
weeks after we started streaming okay so
guys like this this we have to talk
about actually so I just want to say
first of all thank you guys very much I
forgot about this
so we've hit like 100,000 followers on
Twitter like eight weeks or 10 weeks
after we started stream like we started
streaming in September or October or
something and so it's been like three to
four months and our stream really picked
up about two months ago
so we've hit already a hundred thousand
followers on Twitch and a hundred
thousand subscribers on YouTube which is
amazing and so like I think that we so
just so you guys know so healthy gamer
has been around for a little over a year
and we've been like sort of a volunteer
kind of project so we've got five people
that have been volunteering and we
started with you know in over the course
of maybe 2000 the first eight months of
2019 we got a hundred subscribers on
YouTube and we had an average of like 20
to 30 viewers on Twitch and so and we've
grown a lot since then so first of all I
want to thank you guys for showing up
subscribing supporting us
we're number 135 on the fastest growing
English twitch streamers over the last
180 days and number 47 in the last 90 so
that's been just absolutely crazy so
like our growth has been awesome and
I've been really grateful for it because
now you know we've got a team of people
that are helping us like produce more
content and like making other kinds of
content that may not be related to
YouTube it's been just an incredible and
unbelievable experience
so a couple of other things so healthy
gamer has been so we kind of started the
twitch stuff around 2019 but we actually
started our original alpha group back in
2018 and what I had done is is started
with this was sort of after the reddit
AMA I don't know if you guys saw this
back in 2018 but I did an AMA about
video game addiction and so I had a
group of about 15 people that reached
out to me and we actually started
running a group so every week I spent
one hour with like the same group of
people and we would talk about video
game addiction we would talk about our
lives and we talk about our minds we
would talk about meditation and I worked
with people every week over the course
of a year and that was like our alpha
group and so that group went really well
people I think really did a phenomenal
job some of the volunteers that have
actually joined healthy gamer came out
of that group and so it was a lot of fun
to kind of work with people
longitudinally and then we realized that
like over time you know so what I was
working with people presumably this was
a group about video game addiction but
over time we began to realize that like
it's not really just about being
addicted to the game it's that people
don't understand like mental health that
mental health the face of mental health
is changing right so like the needs and
pressures that are on our minds have
changed because of things like social
media because of things like being
unable to escape bullies like when I was
in school you know I would get bullied
in school and then I would go home and
then I wouldn't see the bully anymore
but now thanks to social media and
Instagram and Twitter and things like
that bullying is like 24/7 and so we
need a new perspective on mental health
like the kinds of challenges that people
are facing gamers and also non gamers
because I guess a bunch of non gamers
are watching our stream now which is
bizarre so I recently got a message from
someone in India who is like not a gamer
at all but has started watching our
streams and so we've just we're
spreading really wide
and so so this this stream has really
evolved into really helping people
understand like evolving issues and
nuances around mental health that I
don't think that a psychiatric model is
sufficient anymore right so it's not
just about getting diagnosed with
depression and taking an antidepressant
like that's not going to fix your life
so we as we sort of grew and as I began
to realize that we you know wanted to
like reach a broader audience and that
what we were talking about was really
important we turned to twitch and and so
we started streaming which is insane so
I got a lot of feedback for many of my
colleagues that this is crazy you can't
be a psychiatrist or doctor and like
start talking to people on the internet
and so yeah so I think that that was you
know so we tried an experiment I think
Devin Nash was instrumental actually in
getting us off the ground and helping us
develop a stream and things like that so
huge thanks to Devin if you guys don't
know who Devin is he's been in the
eSports industry for many many years and
produces actually a lot of content that
I have found more and more interesting
as I've gotten into streaming so he
talks a lot about the scene the industry
a lot about kind of streaming he runs a
talent agency and Devin was amazing in
supportive and I sort of began to
realize or like he helped me realize
that like we can actually reach a lot of
people through twitch streaming and so I
think another thing that I kind of want
to comment on is like that sort of
started our journey and we've gotten so
much help from a ton of people in terms
of like advice like domination time has
been awesome in terms of helping us like
he told me like what to order in terms
of you know how to set up microphones
and things like that and as we've talked
to more and more streamers like the
spread of our AoE has increased and
that's been awesome so like other
streamers that I just want to thank for
sort of helping us understand twitch and
helping us grow destiny Athene and shout
outs to like lily Pichu reckful Skye
Williams Mitch Jones Bobbi
Ethan Evans these people have been just
incredibly
amazing and brave for coming on and then
also like all of the people who aren't
streamers right so whether it starts
with people like madame Fey or donut
muncher or boole's
all of these people crus if I mean there
have been so many people have been
willing to come on everyone who came on
for of all things the porn addiction
stream and and you know it this stream
has been built off of y'all so I think
that a lot of people think that healthy
gamer is about dr. K but it's not
actually about me like I don't I don't
know how else to say that so you guys
realize that like you know I'm basically
a facilitator but all of the things like
the AoE healing actually comes from the
people who come on stream like you guys
get this like this is important to
understand I'm not actually healing
anyone right it's the people who are
coming on and sharing their struggles
the people who are being courageous and
offering themselves up in terms of their
mind and what they struggle with and as
they like work through that stuff that's
what's helpful for people right so it's
not me like I don't you guys are not
resonating with me you guys are
resonating with the people who come on
stream and so I think that that like
huge huge thanks to everyone who has
come on stream everyone who has
volunteered to come on stream all of the
people who have helped us get to where
we are people who edit our YouTube and
people who even like comment and stuff
on YouTube like that's huge people who
you know posts on our subreddit and and
like hang out on our discord like our
discord is like an amazing place now and
so like I want to stress this like more
and more and more that healthy gamers
like really not about me it's not it's
about you guys and y'all are the ones
that are really making this happen and
whether your support is by watching
whether it's by subscribing or donating
or anything like that whether it's
hanging out on discord whether it's
posting on on reddit like wherever it is
wherever you guys like you guys are
building this that's what a healthy game
was really about and so I think a couple
of other things it's been an interesting
journey so the funny thing that started
to happen is when we talk about
streamers like when I talk to streamers
they sort of
about the feeling of needing to perform
and I also sort of felt that struggle
personally so I started like noticing
that my viewercount started mattering to
me and I would check my viewer account
and I would check like I would just log
on at random times to see like how many
followers we have on Twitch and I
started to like feel this pull towards
like wanting to be bigger and I think
that that's really dangerous and I
actually don't I mean do I want to grow
absolutely but I don't think that this
is about the growth of our stream right
like that's not actually what we should
care about and what I it's not what I
want to care about I think we've got to
remember that healthy gamer is actually
not about how big we are not about how
successful we are it's really about you
guys so healthy gamer is about the
individual person that each stream you
know we talk to you like it's about that
person and it's about you guys for
watching and so you know the goal of
this and I hope we really straight to
stay true to our mission and don't sell
out and all that good stuff is
ultimately to help you and it's to help
the people who come on it's to help the
people who are part of our community
like that's what we're really about it's
not about growth it's not about money
it's not about subs I mean all that
stuff is really helpful and helps us
grow so I'm grateful for that but at the
end of the day like we got into this to
help you guys understand how you work as
human beings and how to be like more
successful and be healthier and happier
in life if you're held back by
depression if you're held back by a lack
of motivation if you're a NEET right so
not an education employment or training
if you're you know a gamer and ER addict
if you spend ten hours a day at home
like it doesn't all of those things are
completely fine and we're here to help
you right or help be here to help you
kind of come out of that so a couple of
other things so since we're growing so
much I was talking a little bit about
the coaching program so it's my hope
that I can offer support because there's
just no way like so over the last month
I've gotten 2,000 dm's emails messages
on reddit all this kind of stuff for
people like voicemails things like that
I just got
call actually I got an email from the
page operator at my hospital that my
voice box is full because people are
somehow like paging me or calling me or
trying to contact me through my Hospital
don't do that by the way because I'm not
gonna get that message so you know we're
growing a lot and I think this isn't so
now the challenge becomes like how do we
help you guys more so this is something
that I definitely want to hear from you
guys about so like I want y'all to
understand that I I am I am a resource
right so that's the way that I view
myself so I want to know what can I do
to help you more and so a lot of people
have messaged me like I only have 24
hours in a day you know eight of those I
try to sleep and then two to three of
those I try to spend with my family and
like those are important to me I have to
you know I have a job and stuff so I
have to spend like you know I spent
about six to eight hours a day working
usually and then I spend like two to
four hours a day on healthy gamer and so
what I want to know is like how can I
help more and this is a question that I
have for you guys so you guys need to
tell me what you want me to do like do
you want me to stream or do you want me
to make more longitudinal content do you
want me to train coaches and all that
kind of stuff so and this is something
that thankfully you guys have been
awesome about so people have told me
like what they want right so here's what
and so this is what healthy gamer is
working on so we're at a hundred
thousand followers and subscribers thank
you guys very much for everyone who has
subscribed and donated and stuff like
that here's what we're gonna do with
that okay so the first thing that we're
gonna do is train coaches because I've
realized that like I don't think that
any amount of watching twitch and
YouTube is a substitute I can get on
here and talk to you know I can talk
about how the mind works how the brain
works how spirituality works I can talk
about addiction and I'm gonna do all
those things I can interview people and
that's part of the AoE healing but I
think there's no substitute for if we're
really talking about like what
scientifically constitutes change in
someone's life it's working with someone
right so what we want to do is like
change the way that people get support
so mental health right now is too
expensive too old and too slow what do I
mean by that so like if you guys want to
see a therapist
you know those appointments run anywhere
from like 125 to like 500 per
appointment right insurance will cover a
portion of that things like that
sometimes insurance is expensive
sometimes insurance is crappy it's it's
too slow so like getting an appointment
with a therapist can take time so I
still think you guys should try to do
all of those things if you do have a
mental health problem you should see a
clinician so our coaching program is not
a substitute for mental health treatment
it's not designed to diagnose or treat
anything but it is designed to support
you and this is where there's actually
some really interesting research that
shows that coaches are actually very
effective is a group of people it's sort
of helping people and so we're gonna
train coaches and the average age of
psychiatrist by the way in the u.s. is
like 54 or something like that so I
think the other challenge that I heard
from you guys is that like when you do
sometimes seek mental health treatment
they they may be able to handle the
depression but there are things about
your life that they don't understand and
so that's why we developed our coaching
program so our focus has really been on
the coaching program because like
ultimately I think that you guys you
know what I want to do is train people
who sort of follow my methodology and
are able to like help you guys
so we're also like trying to seek
sponsors sponsorship and stuff like that
because I know that you know a lot of
people don't have resources to pay for
this stuff so we're working on that kind
of stuff so the next thing that we're
working on is more longitudinal content
right so a lot of people have asked for
like more in-depth stuff about Ayurveda
about how do you find your Dharma how do
you understand addiction how do you
understand your brain can you put
together like a set of meditation
exercises like a meditation curriculum I
want to build all that stuff out it
doesn't seem like Twitch's necessarily
the best way to deliver that content so
we may like you know if we're thinking
about like a course like if you want to
learn meditation start to finish theory
different kinds of techniques new
techniques for insomnia techniques for
anxiety techniques for depression and
techniques for strengthening like you
physically strengthening use techniques
for enhancing your Chi or your prana
you know how can we sort of create a
longitudinal body of content like a
curriculum so that's the other big thing
that I want to focus on and then this is
something that my team keeps on telling
me not to talk about but I'm gonna talk
about it anyway and and so the other
thing that I want to do in my heart of
hearts is to like do like more retreats
so this we probably don't have the
bandwidth for and things like that but
ultimately we had a retreat in August of
2019 and people gamers from like all
over the US came and we want to do like
I want to do that again because
ultimately as much as AoE is important
as much as I love streaming on Twitch as
much as I love teaching you guys the
stuff and training coaches and stuff
like that the most of so I want to see
people in person I want to work with
people in person I want you guys to come
I want to help you I want to help you
like in a group I want to help you in
person I want to talk to you in person
and so okay [ __ ] ready great oh sorry
biscuit okay so all right let me just
kind of wrap up it's the last thing that
I wanted maybe not the last thing but
you know one of the things that I also
want to mention is this wouldn't be
possible without our mods so like this
is amazing like the coolest thing about
this whole experience has been our mods
so I don't know where you guys came from
I don't know how you became mods but
y'all are doing an awesome job and the
mods on our discord they like got
together themselves they're so much more
organized than we are actually they like
they're putting together a coding
workshop to help people like learn how
to code right so there are people in our
community that are starting to like help
other people acquire skills that will
like get them jobs and so that they can
earn money and be financially
independent and these mods just came out
of nowhere like I don't know where y'all
came from but y'all are amazing and I
sat in on a mod meeting which happens
every week there's like a mod meeting
that happens every week so I like asked
if I could come and see what they're up
to
they're so organized and they're so
awesome and there's so many times where
we've had guests who have actually
pretty toxic communities and they've
done a really really good job of like
keeping those talks of communities in
check and remember
that like this is a stream so you guys
like understand first of all it takes a
ton of courage to come on here and
secondly like sometimes twitch chat is
an [ __ ] like sometimes twitch chat is
like mean to people who show
vulnerability and weakness and they're
like hungry for blood and our mods have
been so awesome it's sort of shutting
that down and like creating a space
that's positive so like I get that I
mean I get it's fun I get it's kind of
you know important to be like I know
that a lot of people like that kind of
thing but this that's not what the
stream is about right like it's not
about laughing at other people it's
about learning from other people it's
about growing yourself and so I just
want to say a huge thank you to the mods
and yeah so like I guess there there are
other things like music stuff like
people are teaching other people how to
make music they're teaching people how
to code there's also like organic groups
that are happening within our discord
where people are like forming
accountability groups so those are like
these are like groups that are basically
like people are keeping each other and
check in terms of like exercise and
stuff like that and so huge like thank
you to that so and yeah so like I would
just want to emphasize this and then
we'll get to miss gif so healthy gamers
not about me right so I'm dr. kay but
it's not it's not dr. kay it's healthy
gamer it's about our staff it's about
our moderators it's about our coaches
it's about our community it's about the
people who hang out on discord it's
about people who are on YouTube and
reddit and twitch it's about you guys
like healthy gamer it's not dr. kay
stream it's healthy gamer stream and you
guys are the healthy gamers and I think
it's just what I think is just amazing
is that I live in a time where I have I
realize some time ago that like this is
not gonna work like I've spent I devoted
15 years of my life to understand how
people work and how to help them and
people come to my office every single
day not every day but you know five days
a week and I help them individually
and like that's not good enough there's
just no way there's no way that I can
help everyone who needs help so we need
like AoE in like twitch right discord
like I I don't I didn't live like this
isn't I'm not doing this 20 years ago I
20 years ago it was like I seek you if
you guys even know what that is right
it's like AOL Instant Messenger this
would not be possible 20 years ago so
the world is changing the challenges
that we face seem insurmountable
mental health is like at an all-time
high in terms of like how much it screws
people over you have Nene's in South
American eat that Abajo and knee
estudiar you have meats not an
employment education and training you
have the lowest employment of like men
between the ages of 18 and 25 you have a
suicide rate that is 50% higher among
that is growing by 50% amongst
adolescents over the last decade you
have video game addiction that is at
around six percent of the population and
below the age of 18 it's like nine point
five percent the world is getting worse
and we have the tools now like look at
my face like I'm smiling because we can
fight this we can do this because we
have twitch right it's the very things
videogames keep you stuck and alone and
stuff like that but there's also like
discord keeps you at home because the
you I don't have any friends in real
life but they're people now on discord
who can teach you how to code there are
people on Twitter who will teach you how
to meditate it's kind of like we're
playing hard mode version of life where
the challenges that we face are a lot
greater than they've ever been and we
can talk about why that is in terms of
mental health but we also have tools in
support in ways that we've never like
had them before so you can like become a
game developer from your home and you
can learn how to code from github and
you can do all this stuff like at home
there's so much power at your disposal
that has never been there before and I'm
grateful for twitch and YouTube and like
all of these communities for like
helping me spread this message because I
couldn't do this 20 years ago so I'm
optimistic and we're gonna keep going
and you guys have supported me you guys
have said yes dr. K we like what you're
doing that support comes in terms of
viewership subs all that good stuff so
you guys are supporting me so I'm gonna
support you and I'm going to
to bigger and better and more and like
we're gonna do this like I don't we're
gonna do it we're gonna do it